Questions
=========
1. What is the main method in Java?
The main method is the entry point of a Java program. It is the method that Java Virtual
Machine (JVM) calls to execute the program. The signature of the main method is public
static void main(String[] args).

2. What is the significance of the String[] args parameter in the main method?
The String[] args parameter allows command-line arguments to be passed to the main method
when the program is executed from the command line. These arguments are passed as strings
in an array.

3. Can the main method be declared with a return type other than void?
No, the main method in Java must have a return type of void. It cannot return any value.

4. Can we overload the main method in Java?
Yes, we can overload the main method in Java by declaring multiple main methods with
different parameter lists. However, only the public static void main(String[] args)
method is the entry point for the JVM to start the program execution.

5. What happens if the main method is declared as public void main(String[] args)
instead of public static void main(String[] args)?
If the main method is declared without the static modifier, it will not be recognized
as the entry point by the JVM, and the program will fail to execute.

6. Can we run a Java program without the main method?
No, the main method is mandatory for running a Java program. It serves as the entry
point for the JVM to start executing the program.

7. Can we change the order of modifiers in the main method declaration?
Yes, the order of modifiers (e.g., public, static) in the main method declaration can
be changed. For example, static public void main(String[] args) is also a valid
declaration.

8. Can the main method be declared as final?
Yes, the main method can be declared as final. However, it is not necessary because the
main method is already implicitly final due to being static.

9. What happens if the main method throws an exception?
If the main method throws an uncaught exception, the program terminates with an error
message indicating the exception type and stack trace.

10. Can you declare the main method as private or protected?
No. The main method must be declared as public to be accessible by the JVM.

11. What happens if the main method is declared with a return type other than void?
If the main method is declared with a return type other than void, such as int, the
program will compile successfully. However, it will not be recognized as the entry
point by the JVM, and the program will fail to execute.

12. What happens if the main method is declared as static but not as public?
If the main method is declared as static but not as public, it will compile successfully.
However, the JVM will not recognize it as the entry point, and the program will fail to
execute.

13. Can we declare the main method with a variable number of arguments (varargs)?
Yes, we can declare the main method with a variable number of arguments (varargs) as
follows:
public static void main(String... args)
This allows the main method to accept a variable number of command-line arguments.

14. What happens if we remove the String[] args parameter from the main method signature?
If we remove the String[] args parameter from the main method signature, the program will
compile successfully. However, the JVM will not recognize it as the entry point, and the
program will fail to execute.

15. What happens if the main method is declared with the throws clause?
If the main method is declared with the throws clause to declare checked exceptions, the
program will compile successfully. However, if any uncaught checked exception occurs
during the execution of the main method, the program will terminate with an error message
indicating the exception type and stack trace.

16. Can we declare the main method with synchronized modifier?
Yes, we can declare the main method with the synchronized modifier. However, it is not
common and generally not recommended because the main method is the entry point for the
program, and synchronization may introduce unnecessary overhead.

17. While we know you can't overload the main method, can you achieve a similar effect
by overriding it in a subclass?
No, overriding the main method in a subclass won't work as expected. The JVM searches
for the main method in the main class where program execution starts. Overriding it in
a subclass doesn't change the entry point.

18. Can you write a main method that calls itself recursively?
While technically possible, it's not recommended. Recursive calls within the main method
can lead to stack overflows and unexpected program behavior. The main method is meant
for program initialization and execution, not for implementing recursive algorithms.

